About the Department

Pioneering New Markets that Transform Society
 
Computer science is concerned with the scientific, engineering, management and mathematical issues in developing and applying software technology in the modern information world. The Department of Computer Science at Stevens is committed to being a world leader both in education and research.
 
Top-Tier Education
 
Careers in information technology are highly valued. Jobs for professional software developers offer high pay and regular outlets for creativity, and professionals who combine a strong technical background with business skills are particularly prized. The computer science education programs in the School of Engineering and Science are therefore designed to educate the high-end IT professionals of the future by combining a strong technical spine with a senior year two-semester project course that develops the client-facing and project management skills expected of the modern IT professional.
 
Professional graduate programs in computer science, enterprise computing, and cybersecurity allow IT professionals to "drill down" to specific areas such as distributed systems, networks, cybersecurity, visual analytics, databases and software engineering. The innovative program in service oriented computing provides an accelerated professional education program for domain experts who have weak IT backgrounds but intend to apply Web technologies, including Web Services and service oriented architecture (SOA), in well-defined application domains.
 
The computer science doctoral program allows outstanding students who want to change the face of computer science to work with our world-class faculty in cutting-edge research. All doctoral candidates receive financial support and start their research immediately with an advisor.
 
Mission
 
The computer science department conducts research to produce advances in computer science for the benefit of society, and educates students to become leaders in the development and application of computer science technology.
 
Accreditation
 
The Computer Science department offers 9 degrees: 2 B.S. majors, 5 M.S. degrees, an Engineer degree, and a doctoral program. Only the B.S. major in computer science has ever been submitted for accreditation. The B.S. program in computer science is accredited by:
