Graduate Programs

Graduate students in Computer Science join a world-class faculty that provides both breadth and depth of instruction and research opportunities within security, programming languages, graphics and vision, software engineering, and computer networks. Faculty publish in top journals, receive funding from the most competitive agencies, and collaborate regularly with colleagues throughout the greater New York City area. The university's researchers consult with companies such as Microsoft, IBM, Google, Bell Labs, AT&T Labs, and other top industry labs. The M.S. degree with optional concentrations provides elite training for both professional careers and further study or research within academia. The Stevens Ph.D. prepares students for careers conducting research at the head of the field. Ph.D. students are fully funded.

The Computer Science department offers a number of options for advanced graduate study, with seven Master's Programs, an Engineer Program, a Ph.D. Program, and fifteen Graduate Certificates.

Get answers to Frequently Asked Questions >>

Master's Programs

A master's degree provides students the opportunity to "drill down" into a specific subject area within a discipline. With information technology extending its reach into more and more application domains, students are increasingly interested in focused education that may draw from several areas. A flexible MS/CS program provides an in-depth education in several aspects of IT.

It is this flexibility, and this combination of focus areas, that distinguishes the MS/CS program. Whether students are looking to pursue a versatile Master's in Computer Science or something specialized such as Game Design, there is a program to fit their interests and skills. Programs range from Cybersecurity to Multimedia Experience and Management.

Engineer Program

The degree of Engineer in Computer Science is for students who already have a Master's degree in computer science or a closely related field and wish to continue to study computer science deeply at an advanced level, but do not wish to seek a Ph.D. degree.

Ph.D. Program

The Ph.D. program allows outstanding students who want to change the face of computer science to work with world-class faculty in cutting-edge research. The major research interests of the faculty in the department are: Computer Security, Visualization and Graphics, and Software Engineering.

Graduate Certificates

The department offers Graduate Certificate programs which are tailored for those who wish to improve their current skill-set and knowledge or wish to take a different path in their career without committing to a full Master's Degree program.
 








 


Empowering Success
?Graduate Co-op Program
?Career Services
?Alumni Association

Research Magazine
Read how Stevens is innovating:?Mobile App Security
?Can Privacy and Collaboration Co-exist on the Web?
?Building the Future Internet
?Post-Quantum Cryptography

WebCampus

Award-winning WebCampus programs geared toward adult learners offer the same degree, recognition, credentials, and access to university services as on-campus programs.

CONTACT

Dr. Dan Duchamp
Department Director
201-216-5390
dduchamp@stevens.edu

Resources
?Teaching Assistantships
?Registrar
?Catalog
?Financial Aid
?Lab Safety

Partners
?Board of Advisors
?Job Board
?K-12 Teachers

 
 . 

Admission Requirements
 
Admission into the Graduate Certificate or Master's Degree programs requires an undergraduate degree in Engineering, or in a related discipline, with a grade point average of "B" or better from an accredited college or university.
 
Required Documentation 

All applicants must submit the following documents to be considered for admission:
 ?Completed online application for admission
?Official college transcripts from all colleges attended
?Two letters of recommendation
?Statement of Purpose
?GRE scores*
?Application fee
 
Optional Documents:
 ?Resume/CV
 
* Starting Fall 2014 GRE scores required for all applicants applying into a full-time graduate program in the School of Engineering and Sciences. (Code #2819) All scores are only valid for five years prior to the application term. GRE required for all PhD applicants.
 
Additional Requirements for International Applicants
 
TOEFL/IELTS - International students (Code #2819).  For English language proficiency requirements please click here.
 
Approximately two weeks following receipt of the above material, you will receive a decision letter from the Office of Graduate Admissions. If accepted you will receive an acceptance letter outlining the program to which you were accepted, as well as your assigned Academic Advisor's contact information.
 
For questions related to program requirements please check with the Office of Graduate Admissions at gradadmissions@stevens.edu.
 
For more details on deadlines and how to apply please visit the Office of Graduate Admissions website at www.stevens.edu/graduate
